It was 140 years ago, in 1884, when Zion's watchtower track society was legally incorporated.
Now I know there are many great beards here, but I understand that none of you were present
on that occasion.
That's reassuring.
It was just as Zechariah chapter 4 and verse 10 says.
It was a day of small beginnings, really just a handful.
But what has Jehovah accomplished in the field in the last 140 years?
Today we have nearly 9 million who are preaching the good news of God's kingdom in some 240
lands and with publications in more than 1,000 languages.
Brothers, aren't we moved to glorify Jehovah for what he has accomplished?
But how did we get to this point?
And what has been a major factor in the global expansion that Jehovah's organization has
experienced?
And what opportunities are open in the field for our young ones?
Please watch.
When you think of a missionary, perhaps you think of someone older who has been preaching
for many years.
But of course, many were very young when they started.
In fact, in the mid to late 1940s, 30% of the missionaries sent from Gilead were under
24 years of age.
They were young, energetic, full of life, willing to accept assignments around the world,
and they accomplished incredible things.
For instance, in 1943, we were preaching in 54 lands and the number of publishers was
still relatively small.
Jehovah blessed their hard work and zeal.
In just five years, the number of publishers worldwide nearly doubled.
By 1953, it had doubled again and the reach of Jehovah's organization expanded to 143
lands.
At 10-year burst of activity, laid the foundation for Jehovah's organization to grow into what
it has become today.
Over 8 million people spread across 239 lands, reaching billions with the truth.
Young missionaries have directly contributed to the fulfillment of Jesus' words, preaching
the good news of the kingdom for a witness to all the nations.
Over 80 years have passed.
Perhaps you're thinking, is there still a need for missionaries today?
What do the facts show?
We see tremendous growth and potential for more growth around the world.
What has happened just during the past service year?
Mozambique had an all-time peak in memorial attendance of well over 400,000.
It's more than four times the number of publishers in that land.
Angola averaged over 900 new missionaries a month.
Excuse me, new publishers a month.
That's a lot, wow.
The Congo branch averaged more than 1,300 new publishers a month and in Philippines
on average more than 1,000 were baptized every month.
Or brothers and sisters, in these places that are experiencing rapid growth, there is
a huge need for more missionaries.
But there are also needs in other lands.
Many countries have been blessed to have long-time missionaries who have done excellent work.
But many of those faithful ones have now passed on.
Researchers have had to leave their assignments because of having to care for aging relatives
or because of their own health challenges.
So here's the question, is there still a need for missionaries today?
The answer is absolutely yes.
There is a tremendous work to be accomplished in the world in missionary service and enthusiastic
and zealous young people are still being sent out every year to serve as missionaries.
For example, recently the service committee sent 36 new missionaries to Madagascar and
10 to Latvia.
Well now how do these young missionaries feel about their privilege of service?
Let's watch.
Our main preacher need at the moment in Madagascar is training of new ones.
We have new publishers who are not even baptized yet, have in progressive Bible studies.
We were very happy to receive new young missionaries being assigned.
We now branched committee learned that we will get some new missionaries to Latvia.
We were really thrilled.
We were three years special pioneers and later we received this letter.
I was thinking Latvia, what do you know about Latvia?
My legs was thrombling but then I say, it's exciting.
For me it's still like a dream and sometimes I'm asking friends, is it really real?
I was expecting maybe somewhere in Africa and they said, no, no, you will have beautiful
snow.
We really felt these new missionaries invigorating the field, their enthusiasm is really
pushing the work forward.
Now many publishers are more active in service and by any spirit is increasing.
I thought you was blessing in our assignment especially by the children in our congregation.
And they hug you, you feel like home and the language doesn't matter anymore.
I love my missionary assignment because it has opened my eyes to something beautiful.
The ministry is simply amazing.
Being a missionary is something special but on the other hand it's quite a normal Christian
life focused on the preaching and enjoy everyday life.
It's okay to be afraid to have doubts but give your whole world a chance.
Being a missionary is the biggest experience in my life.
My assignment strength and my spirituality because now I know I'm not afraid of more difficult
tasks.
I agree.
So we need many more young people to take up missionary service.
Well that raises the question, how do you become a missionary?
Well the first step is to enter full-time service and then after you've been in full-time
service for two years what do you need to do?
You need to apply for the school for kingdom evangelizers.
SKE is the door to missionary service.
You also need to have the spirit of Isaiah when he said, here I am, send me willing to go
wherever the organization might assign you.
After you graduate SKE you could receive an assignment to serve as a temporary special
pioneer in your home country so that you can gain experience.
And if you do well in that assignment you could receive an assignment to serve as a missionary
in another country.
Missionary service is a thrilling opportunity to bring the good news to honest-hearted people
in another part of the world.
We need young people who want to go and make disciples of people of all the nations.
Well how old do you need to be to apply for the school for kingdom evangelizer?
Well we're very pleased to announce today that the governing body has decided that young
brothers and sisters 21 years of age or older may now apply to attend SKE.
Isn't that exciting and wonderful?
But many of you young ones right now are serving where the need is greater.
Perhaps even in another country that's wonderful.
But we encourage you now to apply for the school for kingdom evangelizers.
You see this will allow the organization to see where you could best be used in the
worldwide field.
Young brothers and sisters please seize this wonderful opportunity.
But what about those of us who are a bit older?
What can we do to help these young people?
Let's be generous in training them and in sharing with them our experience.
Let's help them to grow and encourage them to reach out for these wonderful opportunities
to glorify Jehovah.
When I was just 19 years old a brother invited me to attend my very first annual meeting.
It was a special one.
The 100th anniversary of the Watchtower Bible and Track Society held in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
I was so excited I thought I died and went to heaven.
I couldn't believe that that brother would invite me to attend when I was so young.
But the encouragement from that experience has stayed with me right up until this very
moment.
Brothers and sisters, what will you do?
What will you do to encourage a young person to glorify Jehovah?
Certainly, Jehovah will bless you if you look for ways to do so.
Well, the preaching work is more urgent than ever before.
Will you read with me Romans chapter 10, please?
Romans chapter 10 and verse 13.
It says, for everyone who calls on the name of Jehovah will be saved.
However, how will they call on him if they have not put faith in him?
How in turn will they put faith in him about whom they have not heard?
How in turn will they hear without someone to preach?
How in turn will they preach unless they have been sent out?
Just as it is written, how beautiful are the feet of those who declare good news of
good things?
We need young ones, as verse 15 says, to be sent out to preach the good news.
We need young ones to serve us pioneers and special pioneers and missionaries.
We need them to apply for the school for kingdom evangelizers.
So Jehovah has accomplished an amazing work over these past 140 years.
He's blessed the day of small beginnings.
But brothers and sisters, the work is not over yet.
Do you agree?
There are exciting opportunities for our beautiful young people.
So young ones, what will you do?
You can now apply for Bethel and construction service at age 18.
You can apply for the school for kingdom evangelizers at age 21.
Put yourself in Jehovah's hands.
Make yourself available.
You will never regret it.
And may we as older ones do everything in our power to encourage and train these young
people.
Yes, as Brother Loche said, let's keep polishing those mirrors.
Let's keep looking for ways to expand our ministry and to glorify our wonderful, amazing
God, Jehovah.